---
layout: post
permalink: lc0582 
---

## 582. Kill Process

You have n processes forming a rooted tree structure. You are given two integer arrays pid and ppid, where pid[i] is the ID of the ith process and ppid[i] is the ID of the ith process's parent process.

Each process has only one parent process but may have multiple children processes. Only one process has ppid[i] = 0, which means this process has no parent process (the root of the tree).

When a process is killed, all of its children processes will also be killed.

Given an integer kill representing the ID of a process you want to kill, return a list of the IDs of the processes that will be killed. You may return the answer in any order.

 

Example 1:


Input: pid = [1,3,10,5], ppid = [3,0,5,3], kill = 5
Output: [5,10]
Explanation: The processes colored in red are the processes that should be killed.
Example 2:

Input: pid = [1], ppid = [0], kill = 1
Output: [1]
 

Constraints:

    n == pid.length
    n == ppid.length
    1 <= n <= 5 * 104
    1 <= pid[i] <= 5 * 104
    0 <= ppid[i] <= 5 * 104
    Only one process has no parent.
    All the values of pid are unique.
    kill is guaranteed to be in pid.

DFS - O(n)

Step one: Build the Graph using HashMap data structure

Step two: DFS traverse starting from the kill node
```java
class Solution {
    public List<Integer> killProcess(List<Integer> pid, List<Integer> ppid, int kill) {
        Map<Integer, List<Integer>> graph = buildGraph(pid, ppid);
        List<Integer> res = new ArrayList<>();
        dfs(graph, kill, res);
        return res;
    }
    
    private void dfs(Map<Integer, List<Integer>> graph, int cur, List<Integer> res) {
        res.add(cur);
        if(graph.containsKey(cur)){
            for(Integer next : graph.get(cur)) {
                dfs(graph, next, res);
            }   
        }
    }
    
    private Map<Integer, List<Integer>> buildGraph(List<Integer> pid, List<Integer> ppid) {
        Map<Integer, List<Integer>> graph = new HashMap<>();
        for(int i = 0; i < pid.size(); i++) {
            graph.putIfAbsent(ppid.get(i), new LinkedList<Integer>());
            graph.get(ppid.get(i)).add(pid.get(i));
        }
        return graph;
    }
}
```

BFS - O(n)
```java
/**
 * Base case: If the root process is killed, all the processes will be killed
 * Build an adjacency list from the given lists.
 * Starting with kill, do a BFS for all its neighbors and iterate till you run
 * out of neighbors.
 *
 * @param pid list of processIds
 * @param ppid list of parentProcessIds of processIds, matching the order
 * @param kill id of process to be killed
 * @return list of ids of the processes that will be killed
 */
public List<Integer> killProcess(List<Integer> pid, List<Integer> ppid, int kill) {
	if (kill == 0)
		return pid;

	var adjList = new HashMap<Integer, Set<Integer>>();
	for (var i = 0; i < ppid.size(); i++)
		adjList.computeIfAbsent(ppid.get(i), j -> new HashSet<>()).add(pid.get(i));

	var kills = new LinkedList<Integer>();
	var q = new LinkedList<>(List.of(kill));

	while (!q.isEmpty()) {
		kills.add(q.poll());
		q.addAll(adjList.getOrDefault(kills.peekLast(), Set.of()));
	}
	return kills;
}
```